Update .NET 10 overview page for Preview 6 (#47428)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/whats-new/dotnet-10/runtime.md

title: What's new in .NET 10 runtime
description: Learn about the new features introduced in the .NET 10 runtime.
titleSuffix: ""
ms.date: 07/16/2025
ms.topic: whats-new
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---
# What's new in the .NET 10 runtime

> This article describes new features and performance improvements in the .NET runtime for .NET 10.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article describes new features and performance improvements in the .NET runtime for .NET 10. It has been updated for Preview 6.
```

> ## JIT compiler improvements

Reviewer: There are other, existing H2s in this article that apply to JIT and should be moved under this heading as well.

.NET 10 improves the JIT compiler's internal representation to handle values that share a register. Previously, when struct members needed to be packed into a single register, the JIT would store values to memory first and then load them into a register. Now, the JIT compiler can place the promoted members of struct arguments into shared registers directly, eliminating unnecessary memory operations.

Consider the following example:

```csharp
struct Point
{
    public long X;
    public long Y;

    public Point(long x, long y)
    {
        X = x;
        Y = y;
    }
}

[MethodImpl(MethodImplOptions.NoInlining)]
private static void Consume(Point p)
{
    Console.WriteLine(p.X + p.Y);
}

private static void Main()
{
    Point p = new Point(10, 20);
    Consume(p);
}
```

On x64, we pass the members of `Point` to `Consume` in separate registers, and since physical promotion kicked in for the local `p`, we don't allocate anything on the stack first:

```asm
Program:Main() (FullOpts):
       mov      edi, 10
       mov      esi, 20
       tail.jmp [Program:Consume(Program+Point)]
```

> Now, suppose we changed the members of `Point` to be `ints` instead of `longs`. Because `ints` are four bytes wide, and registers are eight bytes wide on x64, the calling convention requires us to pass the members of `Point` in one register. Previously, the JIT compiler would first store the values to memory, and then load the eight-byte chunk into a register. With the .NET 10 improvements, the JIT compiler can now place the promoted members of struct arguments into shared registers directly:

Reviewer 2: Let's fix the code fences. The "s" isn't a keyword:

```suggestion
Now, suppose we changed the type of the members of `Point` to `int` instead of `long`. Because an `int` is four bytes wide, and registers are eight bytes wide on x64, the calling convention requires us to pass the members of `Point` in one register. Previously, the JIT compiler would first store the values to memory, and then load the eight-byte chunk into a register. With the .NET 10 improvements, the JIT compiler can now place the promoted members of struct arguments into shared registers directly:
```
